riding around nyc

crazy

no laws for bikes

Pedestrians and people hanging out on their porches had a lot to say
to us.  It was sometimes difficult, in this foreign East Coast
culture, to tell if people were yelling things that
were positive or negative.  Lots of bottles were raised in our honor,
and one guy jumped on his BMX bike to ride up to each of us and tell
us personally that we were all right.  My favorite responses were a
kind of respectful taunt, a message that "you guys are stupid fucked
up white kids, but that's cool, we all have our shit to do and you do
it well."

There was only one hairy situation.  I was near the back of the pack
and heard someone on the sidewalk yell "let's get 'em!"  Three guys
broke from the crowd and started running at a rider in the front of
our group.  When I saw that, I sped up and prepared to ram the runner
in front, but luckily I saw that he was slowing down before reaching
his target - it was a joke.  If I had hit him, some real shit might
have started.

construction

workshop:
people using the hand grinder to cut
golden showers
bits of metal flying through the air
vog smoking bike fumes
no lights, torch to illuminate

chunkathalon

The day of the Chunkathalon.  We rode in a little parade to the site
with Jake's musical trailer.  Brooklyn residents really love this
thing, and wherever we go with it they start yelling and cheering.
Three kids on mountain bikes saw us coast by and rode with us to the
site, popping wheelies and crashing into us the whole way.  Once we
arrived they tried every bike that they could, and became our little
helpers, rushing to set up events and figuring stuff out before we
could tell them how to do it - a natural sense for fucking shit up.
We couldn't have gotten rid of them if we wanted to.  They swore that
they were above the age of thirteen, so we let them compete in some
events.

Some other clubs and scattered mutant bikers competed as well.  The
Easyriders club lined up several tallbikes and fancy lowriders for
admiration and cooked burgers on a grill, which is just the thing for
these day-long events.  One guy rode a bike with handlebars some two
feet below the level of the seat.  S.C.U.L. sent a rider on a
hand-cranked trike and Snarly, who competed barefoot on a fixed-gear
chopper.  Barefoot!  There was poo in that broken glass!  Some
Zoobombers showed up.  Their minibikes had been stolen the night
before, but they borrowed some new ones.  And, of course, the Black
Label Bike Club came along.  These were the people that we had come
out to meet on the field of sporting combat.  They wore their colors,
traditional denim vests with their club name on the back, and tended
to hang out by themselves, mostly not smiling or talking to us.  We
pranced around in our gay space pirate costumes.  We yelled at them,
"Hi, guys, glad you could make it!"  They scowled at us and told us
that we were going down.  They were great sports, though, most of them
shaking hands after jousting, and they also competed in the
non-tallbike events even though it wasn't their usual thing, sharing
their one chopper that they had recently made.

Eventually, enough spectators showed up to provide padding and a
barrier against going over the edge, CJ felt pretty enough to MC, and
the games begun.

Lap

The Master Cylinder Lap.  Ninja won.

Rescue

Again, we saw who was best qualified to rescue the poor children from
danger.  Our three little helpers took a turn on this one at once, and
two of them were taken out by rolling obstacles.

Derby

Three rounds of the derby.  As soon as the first bits of debris were
hucked at the contestants, the kids who had been taken down previously
went wild and got their revenge on us, and
the rest of crowd took the hint and went berzerk.
There was a perfect array of hazards, all of which we had found on
site, except for the bowling ball.  There were several car wheels,
a tractor tire four feet in diameter, a shopping cart, pipes and
rocks, cans and bottles, road cones, pipes, rocks, and a television
set.  There were also two 
refrigerators on wheels, labeled the "Monitor" and the "Merrimack" -
apparently remnants from a Civil War ironclad naval battle
re-enactment.

A Zoobomber hucked a stroller at Snarly's head and took him down.

During the first round, the tractor tire was rolled towards me, and I
deflected it.  On the second round, I saw it rolling at me again,
and tried to kick it away, but this time there was someone curled up
inside of it, which made it heavy enough to knock me over.

Silken threw the television set at me.  Have you ever been hit with a
television set while you were riding your bike?

Joust

Nerple started out on our tall chopper.  He took down about four
opponents, and then I told the judges to make him switch bikes.  Tall
choppers can be much better jousting bikes than standard tallbikes,
because they can be made with a rear wheel that's farther behind the
rider.  Since jousting is all about avoiding being flipped backwards,
this makes a big difference.  Even on our NYC tallibike, which is way
too tall to be a good jousting tallbike, Nerple took them down.

Then the Black Labelers started being called up.  Jousting is what
they specialize in, and they did it well.  We scored some falls
against them, but they scored more against us.

They had some excellent jousting tallbikes.  Most of them didn't have
brakes.  Tallbikes don't really need brakes, because the rider can
just stand on the rear wheel to slow down.  Safety First of the BLBC
could have used them for one match, though.  When the judges called
for the match to start, he started forward, but his oponent was having
some technical difficulties and was still being held up by his
squires.  Safety First rolled forward, reduced speed, rode past his
opponent, and slowly rolled toward the crowd... which rudely got out
of his way and let him ride over the edge of the concrete pad and down
the five foot drop into the disgusting debris that surrounded it.  The
crowd gasped, and then cheered when his raised arm appeared from over
the edge, triumphantly brandishing his lance.

I had an easy few rounds against the Easyriders from Long Island.
Their bikes are made for cruising, not jousting, so they're laid back
with tall apehangers.  They were good sports as they fell.  I was a
good sport, too, because I had cracked a rib jousting some BLBC
members the previous night, before our lances had been very well
padded, and each time I was hit in the chest it hurt like shit.

Then Doyle, the BLBC's jousting champion, took the field.  I had seen
him in action before in San Francisco.  He weighs two hundred
and fifty pounds, has a steel plate implanted in his chest, and swallows
rocks to give himself stability.  When he was hit,
qi shockwaves would travel back up the handle of the lance and
push his opponent explosively backwards.  It's true that he went down
a few times, but never without taking his opponent down with him.

Snap

The Harness Snap actually worked this time for a few rounds.

Awards Ceremony

The judges conferred briefly and announced the winners.  First place
was Amy Foot of C.H.U.N.K. 666.  Second was Doyle of the Black Label
Bike Club, and third was Snarly from S.C.U.L.  The gentlemen's
jousting champion was Doyle, and the ladies' jousting champ was Rose
Ruby, who had never gotten on a tallbike before that day.

Re-Enactment

Finally, it was time for the historical re-enactment.

This time we recreated the XXXX XXXX XXXX

The locals were not prepared for this situation, which was
unfortunate.  The historical re-enactments are the stupidest part
of the Chunkathalon, because some observers get smacked by stray
missiles every time.  In Portland, we like to pretend that people know
what's going to happen, and therefore deserve whatever they get, but
in Brooklyn they didn't know what what hit them.  Some people were
screaming with joy, and some were jumping off of the pad into the
crap.
